{\rtf1\ansi \deff2\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv{\*\falt Helvetica};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\f2\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb60\sa120 \b\f2\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\li360\ri360\sb120 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\li360 \f2\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sb240\sa60 \f2\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60 \i\f2\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\sb240\sa60 \i\f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60 
\i\f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 Topic Text;}{\s16\li360\sb120 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext15 Topic Heading;}{\s17\li180 \b\f2\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext16 
Topic Caption;}{\s18\fi-360\li720\ri360 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon15\snext18 Topic Text Item;}{\s19\li720\ri720 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon15\snext19 Topic Text Indent;}{\s20\li720 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext20 Normal Indent;}{\s21 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext21 
footnote text;}{\*\cs22 \additive\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s23 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 Heading 1;}{\s24 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon23\snext24 Normal;}}{\info{\title # $ K + Contents}{\author Ulrich Kreuzeder}{\operator Ulrich Kreuzeder}
{\creatim\yr1995\mo4\dy18\hr13\min35}{\revtim\yr1995\mo11\dy3\hr12\min36}{\version4}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords492}{\nofchars2806}{\vern49213}}\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1134 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0{\*\template C:\\MSOFFICE\\WINWORD\\VORLAGEN\\ROBOHELP.DOT}\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s23\sb120\sa120\keepn \f2\fs20 {\cs22\b\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super #} IDH_CONTENTS}}{\b\fs24  }{
\cs22\b\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Contents}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Contents}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {
\cs22\super +} OBERON2}}{\b\fs24  Oberon-2 Compiler Interface Options
\par }\pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par {\uldb\cf11 Oberon-2 compiler options}{\v IDH_Compiler_options} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 Linker options}{\v IDH_Linker_options} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 Directory options}{\v IDH_Directory_options} 
\par \pard\plain \s23\sb120\sa120\keepn \f2\fs20 \page {\cs22\b\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super #} IDH_Compiler_options}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Oberon-2 compiler options}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Oberon-2 compiler options;Compiler}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super +} OBERON2}}{\b\fs24 
 Oberon-2 compiler options
\par }\pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 Compiler options can be changed in the {\i Options/Compiler} dialogue, the settings are stored in the project definition files.
\par \pard \s24 
\par \pard \s24 
Additional code is generated for most options, which results in larger programs and a (small) decrease of program execution speed. Therefore, one should enable the options during development of an application an turn them off for generation of a distribut
ion version. Since the compiler settings incluence the generated code, the program should be carefully checked another time after changing compiler options!
\par \pard \s24 
\par {\b Available Options:
\par 
\par }{\i Debug Symbols
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 The compiler includes linenumber information in the generated code which can be evaluated with the FindError-tool.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 {\i 
\par }\pard \s24 {\i Overflow Check
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 Each numeric operation is checked for overflow condition.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 {\i 
\par }\pard \s24 {\i Type Check
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 The dynamic type of object will be checked at assignments and type guards.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 {\i 
\par }\pard \s24 {\i Index Check
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 The values of array indices are checked against the size of the array.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 {\i 
\par }\pard \s24 {\i Nil Check
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 At run-time is checked, if a referenced pointer is NIL.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 {\i 
\par }\pard \s24 {\i Range Check
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 In every assignment it is checked, whether the value fits into the target variable.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 {\i 
\par }\pard \s24 {\i Initialize Pointers
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 All pointers will be initialized as 0 (NIL).
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 {\i 
\par }\pard \s24 {\i ASSERT Evaluation
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 Code for the evaluation of ASSERT statements is generated. The program will be halted if an assertion fails.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 {\i Smart Callbacks
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 The compiler is forced to generate code, which allows other processes (like the kernel) calls to exported procedures without export declaration in the linker options dialog.
\par \pard \s15\li360\ri360 It is also necessary for object oriented programs, which use classes inside DLLs (like programs written for OPAL or our new object oriented library OPAL++).
\par \pard \s15\li360\ri360 This option is enabled as default.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 Every time one of the above condition fails, then the program stops and the error position (module name and line number) is presented.
\par \pard\plain \s23\sb120\sa120\keepn \f2\fs20 \page {\cs22\b\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super #} IDH_Linker_options}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Linker options}}{\b\fs24  
}{\cs22\b\fs24\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Linker options;Linker}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super +} OBERON2}}{\b\fs24  Linker options
\par }\pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 It is the duty of the linker to combine all modules of a project to one executable file (or dynamic link library). Linker options can be changed in the {\i Options/Linker} dialogue, the settings are stored in the project definition files.

\par \pard \s24 
\par {\b Available Options:
\par }
\par {\i Add, Del
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 This 
buttons insert/delete procedure names to/from the export list. Every Windows callback function (Oberon functions, which shall be called from Windows API functions) must be included in this list! Applications, which make use of Opal's exit-procedures, must
 include the symbol ExitProcThunk!
\par \pard \s15\li360\ri360 The names of exported procedures are put in the non-resident name table as default. If you want to put a name in the resident name table, then add a \ldblquote *\rdblquote  at the end of the symbol name (i.e. \ldblquote 
ExitProcThunk*\rdblquote )
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 {\i Generate DLL
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 The linker generates a DLL instead of an EXE-file.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 {\i Ignore Case
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 The linker does not differ between small and capital letters. This option must be on for Windows programs!
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 {\i DLL runtime-system
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 Generated applications share a common runtime-sytem DLL (rtsobero.dll).\line Advantages: programs get smaller and one can change the runtime-system without new compilation and linkage of the application.\line 
Disadvantage: one has to copy executable file and runtime-system DLL to spread an application.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 {\i Stack size
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 Size of the stack in bytes for the application. DLL's have no own stack, so this option is of no influence for DLL's.
\par \pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 {\i Heap size
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\ri360 \f2\fs20 Size of the local heap for the application. The Oberon-2 command NEW does not allocate memory from local heap, therefore this option must not be increased except you explicitely call the Windows function LocalAlloc.

\par \pard\plain \s23\sb120\sa120\keepn \f2\fs20 \page {\cs22\b\fs24\super {\*\bkmkstart IMAGE}{\*\bkmkend IMAGE}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super #} IDH_Directory_options}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {
\cs22\super $} Directory options}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Directory options;Directories}}{\b\fs24  }{\cs22\b\fs24\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f2\fs20 {\cs22\super +} OBERON2}}{\b\fs24 
 Directory options
\par }\pard\plain \s24 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \s24 The Oberon-2 compiler generates both symbol- and object-files for every source module. This files are stored in the same directory as the source file for default.
\par \pard \s24 
\par \pard \s24 If you want to collect your symbol- and object-files in a different directory, then declare this directory in the {\i Options/Directories} dialogue.
\par }