{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Tms Rmn;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Serif;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}
{\f10\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 System;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f12\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica-Narrow;}{\f13\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Marlett;}{\f14\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Lucida Console;}
{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Lucida Sans Unicode;}{\f16\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}{\f17\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Tahoma;}{\f18\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Haettenschweiler;}{\f19\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}
{\f20\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Black;}{\f21\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman Old Style;}{\f22\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Monotype Sorts;}{\f23\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Garamond;}{\f24\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 MS Outlook;}
{\f25\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Comic Sans MS;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset2\fprq2 Bookshelf Symbol 1;}{\f27\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Bookshelf Symbol 2;}{\f28\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Bookshelf Symbol 3;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset2\fprq2 Bookshelf Symbol 4;}
{\f30\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Bookshelf Symbol 5;}{\f31\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Verdana;}{\f32\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 MT Extra;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset2\fprq1 MS LineDraw;}{\f34\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Algerian;}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Rounded MT Bold;}{\f36\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Braggadocio;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Britannic Bold;}{\f38\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Brush Script MT;}{\f39\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Gothic;}
{\f40\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Colonna MT;}{\f41\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Desdemona;}{\f42\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Footlight MT Light;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f44\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Kino MT;}{\f45\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Wide Latin;}
{\f46\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Matura MT Script Capitals;}{\f47\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Playbill;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Albertus Medium;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Albertus Extra Bold;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Antique Olive;}
{\f51\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Omega;}{\f52\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Times;}{\f53\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Clarendon Condensed;}{\f54\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Coronet;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Letter Gothic;}{\f56\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Marigold;}
{\f57\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Univers;}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Univers Condensed;}{\f59\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial MT Black;}{\f60\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Benguiat Frisky;}{\f61\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Bertram;}
{\f62\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Challenge Extra Bold;}{\f63\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Glowworm;}{\f64\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Graphite Light;}{\f65\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Lucida Casual;}{\f66\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Milestones;}
{\f67\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Nadianne;}{\f68\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Old English;}{\f69\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Party;}{\f70\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Poster Bodoni;}{\f71\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Pompeii Capitals;}{\f72\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Signet Roundhand;}
{\f73\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Theatre Antoine;}{\f74\froman\fcharset255\fprq2 Roman;}{\f75\fscript\fcharset255\fprq2 Script;}{\f76\fmodern\fcharset255\fprq2 Modern;}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq1 MS Dialog;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb240\nowidctlpar \b\f5\ul\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\nowidctlpar 
\b\f5\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\li354\nowidctlpar \b\f8\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext20 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive\super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\*\cs16 \additive\super \sbasedon10 
footnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072 \f8\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext18 header;}{\s19\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext19 
footnote text;}{\s20\li708\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext20 Normal Indent;}{\s21\sb360\sa120\nowidctlpar \b\f5\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext21 Head2;}{\s22\sa72\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext22 Source;}{
\s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 helptopic;}{\s24\sl288\slmult1\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext24 helpkey;}{\s25\nowidctlpar \f5\fs18\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext25 helptext;}{
\s26\sb180\sa120\nowidctlpar \b\f5\fs18\lang1031 \sbasedon22\snext26 helpsource;}{\s27\sb240\sa180\nowidctlpar \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon25\snext27 helplarge;}{\s28\fi-284\li284\nowidctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 \sbasedon25\snext28 helpvorgang;}{
\s29\li567\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon25\snext29 helpSingleEBNF;}{\s30\li567\sb120\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon29\snext30 helpfirstEBNF;}{\s31\li567\sa120\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon29\snext31 helpLastEBNF;}{
\s32\li567\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon29\snext32 helpEBNF;}}{\info{\title Pow! - Help}{\subject Hilfesystem f\'fcr Pow!}{\author fim}{\keywords Pow!}{\doccomm Was f\'fcr eine Plage...}{\operator Ulrich Kreuzeder}
{\creatim\yr1993\mo4\dy15\hr13\min58}{\revtim\yr1996\mo7\dy4\hr10\min25}{\version1}{\edmins0}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49205}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1418\margr5103\margt1418\margb1134 
\deftab737\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\makebackup\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Pow_Hilfe_Index}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Pow! Help Index}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Index}} Pow! Help Index
\par \pard\plain \s24\sl288\slmult1 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 General}{\v\lang2057 Allgemeines}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike Working with projects}{\v Arbeiten_mit_Projekten}
\par {\strike\lang2057 The default project}{\v\lang2057 Standard_Projekt}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Using templates}{\v\lang2057 Arbeiten_mit_Templates}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 The function bar}{\v\lang2057 Die_Funktionsleiste}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Using third party tools}{\v\lang2057 Einbinden_von_Software_Tools}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Informations in the status bar}{\v\lang2057 Informationen_im_Statusbalken}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Compiler-Interface DLL's}{\v\lang2057 Compiler_Interface_DLLs}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Panes}{\v\lang2057 Panes}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Arbeiten_mit_Templates}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Using templates}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Using templates}} Using Templates
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 
Templates are a generalized form of projects. They can be used to define settings which are likely to be identical in a number of future projects, e.g. compiler switches, linker options, or the libraries being used.
\par 
\par When creating a project from a template, all settings from the template are reproduced in the new project. If desired, a directory will be created for the new project. All source files defined in the template will be
 copied to the project directory. If one of the source files has a name identical to that of the template, it is not only copied but also renamed to the name of the new project.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Creating a project from a template:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\fi-284\li284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab All templates residing in the "template" subdirectory of Pow! are listed in the menu entry }{\b\lang2057 Project/New}{\lang2057 . Select one of the templates.
\par 2.\tab Enter the name of the project to be created.
\par 3.\tab Select a different target directory, if required.
\par 3.\tab Press the OK - button. The new project will now be created. All source files are copied to the new project directory.
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Template Options:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Name:}{\lang2057  the name of the project to be created
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Directory:}{\lang2057  the path for the new project
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Create new directory for project:}{\lang2057  If selected, a new subdirectory for the project directory will be created. Its name is the name of the project entered above.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Defining a new Template:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\fi-284\li284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Create a project. Define everything you wish to have as a basis for future projects.
\par 2.\tab Select }{\b\lang2057 Save as Template }{\lang2057 in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Project}{\lang2057 .
\par 3.\tab Enter a name for the template and select a target directory.
\par 4.\tab Press the OK - button. Pow! now saves the project as template. All source and binary project files in the project directory are copied to the template directory.
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Panes}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Panes}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 
\f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Panes}} Panes
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 As an addition to the usual positioning concept of overlapping windows POW! introduces an extension which is especially useful for editing multiple source files.
\par When using the command }{\b\lang2057 Tile }{\lang2057 in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Windows}{\lang2057 , the space available is equally div
ided between all open edit windows. When you wish to resize one of the edit windows without overlapping others, you can avoid resizing all adjoining windows manually.
\par You simply have to resize a window using the right mousebutton instead of the left one. All adjoining windows will be automatically resized.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Allgemeines}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Pow! General}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Pow! General}} General
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 Pow! (}{\b\lang2057 P}{\lang2057 rogrammers }{\b\lang2057 O}{\lang2057 pen }{\b\lang2057 W}{\lang2057 
orkbench) is an integrated development environment which can serve as a multi-language development system. The workbench offers an integrated editor, it includes project management support and the ability to integrate tools from other vendors.
\par The language you wish to use can be chosen by selecting the appropriate interface-DLL (c}{\strike\lang2057 onfiguring the workbench}{\v\lang2057 Konfigurieren_der_Oberflaeche}{\lang2057 ).
\par 
\par Currently Pow! offers support for the following languages:
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Oberon-2
\par }{\lang2057 Pow! comes with a 32 bit Oberon-2 compiler and an appropriate linker. The compiler generates native Win32 object files. Symbolic debug information is provided in CodeView format
. This means that although Pow! does not offer debug facilities at the moment, MSVC++ 4 or 5 can be used for source level debugging of Oberon-2 programs. In addition to full access to the Windows API the system comes with an Oberon library which allows to
 produce native Windows programs in a simple and straight forward way.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 JAVA
\par }{\lang2057 Pow! can act as a development environment around the command line oriented compiler which is part of Suns JDK. The JDK has to be downloaded and installed separately.
\par 
\par }\pard \s25\qj {\b\lang2057 GNU C++
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 Pow! can be used as a C++ development environment based on the GNU C++ compiler for Windows. The GNU C++ compiler has to be downloaded separately.
\par 
\par 
\par Pow! can be made to work with any third party compiler be writing a }{\strike\lang2057 Compiler-Interface DLL}{\v\fs20\lang2057 Compiler_Interface_DLLs}{\lang2057  specification.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Arbeiten_mit_Projekten}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 working with projects}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Projects}} Working with projects
\par \pard\plain \s25\sa120 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 The usual way to get an executable program is to:
\par }\pard \s25\fi-360\li360\tx369 {\lang2057 1.\tab Compile the relevant source modules belonging to the program in the right order.
\par 2.\tab Link the resulting object modules with the runtime system.
\par }\pard \s25\fi-360\li360 {\lang2057 
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 Pow! can do this for you if you specify all necessary files in a Project-Definition. New projects can be derived from }{\strike\lang2057 templates}{\v\lang2057 Arbeiten_mit_Templates}{\lang2057 .
\par 
\par A simple call of the functions  }{\b\lang2057 Make}{\lang2057  or }{\b\lang2057 Build}{\lang2057  (}{\strike\lang2057 Creating a program}{\v\lang2057 Erzeugen_des_Projekts}{\lang2057 
) does everything necessary to create an executable version of the program.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\fi-360\li360 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Opening a project}{\v\lang2057 Oeffnen_einer_Projektdefinition}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Editing projects}{\v\lang2057 Editieren_der_Projektdefinition}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s24 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\strike\fs18\lang2057 The default project}{\v\fs18\lang2057 Standard_Projekt}{\fs18\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Die_Funktionsleiste}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} The function bar}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} The function bar}} The function bar
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 
The most commonly used functions can be activated by buttons which are located directly below the menu bar. You can get the same effect by selecting a command in the menu and pressing the corresponding button is completely equivalent.
\par 
\par The buttons in order of appearance:
\par 
\par }\pard \s25\tx567\tx1418 {\lang2057 \{bmc open.bmp\}\tab }{\b\lang2057 Open\tab }{\lang2057 Initiates the dialog: }{\strike\lang2057 Opening files}{\v\lang2057 Oeffnen_von_Dateien}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard \s25\tx567 {\lang2057 
\par \{bmc save.bmp\}\tab }{\b\lang2057 Save\tab }{\lang2057 Saves the file in the active edit windows.
\par 
\par \{bmc comp.bmp\}\tab }{\b\lang2057 Compile\tab }{\lang2057 Compiles the file in the active edit window.
\par 
\par \{bmc make.bmp\}\tab }{\b\lang2057 Make\tab }{\lang2057 Compiles all sources which have changed since the last Make or Build. After this the whole project is linked.
\par 
\par \{bmc run.bmp\}\tab }{\b\lang2057 Run\tab }{\lang2057 Starts execution of the generated program
\par 
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 \{bmc combo.bmp\}\tab }{\b\lang2057 Project\tab }{\lang2057 
All sources belonging to the current project are listed in this combobox. Selecting one of those opens a new edit window with the file in it or activates the corresponding edit windows if the source is already being edited.
\par 
\par It is possible to add speed buttons to the function bar to activate additional }{\strike\lang2057 tools}{\v\lang2057 Einbinden_von_Software_Tools}{\lang2057 .
\par 
\par The function bar may be located directly beneath the menu or at the bottom of the window (see }{\strike\lang2057 configuring the workbench}{\v\lang2057 Konfigurieren_der_Oberflaeche}{\lang2057 ).
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Einbinden_von_Software_Tools}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Using third party tools}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Tools}} Using third party tools
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 You may wish to add existing tools to POW!, for example your favourite editor.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select }{\b\lang2057 Options}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Tools}{\lang2057 .
\par 2.\tab To add a new tool select the appropriate }{\b\lang2057 Add}{\lang2057  Button: }{\b\lang2057 Add EXE}{\lang2057  for executables, }{\b\lang2057 Add DDE }{\lang2057 for using DDE Server based services, or }{\b\lang2057 Add DLL}{\lang2057 
 for Dynamic Link Libraries. Select the tool you wish to add in the file select dialog and press }{\b\lang2057 Ok}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options for executables:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Path Name:}{\lang2057  Pow! inserts the path of the selected tool here.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Initial Directory:}{\lang2057  If a directory is specified here, it will be made the current directory before execution of the tool. If a PIF-file exists for the desired tool this entry does not have any effect.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options for DDE services:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Service:}{\lang2057  The identification of the DDE server has to be entered here (e.g. "progman" for program manager).
\par For Insiders: The transactional type for calling the service will be XTYP_EXECUTE, and the arguments will be handed over in the CF_TEXT format.
\par }{\b\lang2057 
\par Topic:}{\lang2057  The topic of the desired service (when using the program manager, this would be "progman").
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options for DLL services:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 DLL Name:}{\lang2057  The name of the Dynamic Link Library to be called.
\par }{\b\lang2057 
\par Function:}{\lang2057  The procedure to be called. If it is parameterless it has to be declared as "void func (void)". The only choice given for supporting parameters is to declare a function as "void func (char far *)".
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options for all kinds of services:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Arguments:}{\lang2057  Command line parameters you wish to pass to the tool. The text specified here is passed literally with the exception of special replacement marks (}{\strike\lang2057 
Parameters for Tools}{\v\lang2057 Parameter_fuer_Werkzeuge}{\lang2057 ).
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Menu Entry:}{\lang2057  Defines, whether a tool should be placed in the tools - menu.
\par }{\b\lang2057 
\par Menu Text:}{\lang2057  Name of the tool in the tool menu.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Speed Button:}{\lang2057  Select this option to put a speed button for the tool into the function bar.
\par }{\b\lang2057 
\par Ask for Arguments:}{\lang2057  If this checkbox is selected, you have the opportunity to edit the command line parameters of the tool in a dialog box before the tool is being started.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Pow Window in top:}{\lang2057  If selected, the POW! window will be put on top of the screen immediately after execution of the tool.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 Manipulating the list of tools:
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Delete:}{\lang2057  Deletes the selected definition.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Move Up:}{\lang2057  Moves the selected definition up one position in the menu box.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Move Down:}{\lang2057  Moves the selected definition down one position in the menu box.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Examples:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 EXE-Tool:}{\lang2057 
\par 
\par The Dos Dir command as a tool.
\par 
\par Path Name:\tab c:\\command.com
\par Arguments:\tab /c dir
\par Initial Directory:\tab <empty>
\par Ask for Arguments = not selected
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b DDE - Service:}
\par 
\par Creating a group in the program manager, giving it the name of the current project.
\par 
\par Service:\tab progman
\par Topic:\tab progman
\par Arguments:\tab [creategroup(%p)]
\par \pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Informationen_im_Statusbalken}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Informations in the status bar}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} The Status Bar}} Informations in the status bar
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 The status bar at the bottom of the Pow! window shows information relevant to the currently active edit window.
\par 
\par }{\f4\lang2057 \{bmc status.bmp\}
\par 
\par }\pard \s25\sa72 {\lang2057 The first entry shows the line- and column position of the cursor.
\par The second entry displays the current edit mode: }{\b\lang2057 Insert}{\lang2057  or }{\b\lang2057 Overstrike}{\lang2057 .
\par In the third entry }{\b\lang2057 Modified}{\lang2057  is displayed if the contents of the edit window have been changed since the last save.
\par Any compiler errors are displayed on the right hand side of the bar.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Compiler_Interface_DLLs}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Compiler-Interface DLL's}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Compiler-Interface DLL's}} Compiler-Interface DLL's
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 Pow! was designed to be an open system. It can be adapted to support any native windows compiler.
\par The key to this ability is the concept of the }{\b\lang2057 Compiler-Interface DLL's}{\lang2057 
. These DLL's form the link between POW! and any compiler. The main task of such a DLL for a specific compiler is to support standardized access to both the compiler and the linker.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 \tab Oberon-2 (32 bit).cll
\par \tab \tab }{\lang2057 obrn32.dll
\par \tab \tab link32.dll
\par \tab \tab _ob32.hlp
\par 
\par }\pard \s25\qj {\b\lang2057 \tab Sun JDK.cll
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 \tab \tab Java.hlp
\par 
\par }\pard \s25\qj {\b\lang2057 \tab GNU C++.cll
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 \tab \tab Gcc.hlp
\par 
\par For each compiler that should be used from within POW! it is necessary to implement an interface DLL first.
\par All interface DLL's have to be renamed to use the \ldblquote .cll\rdblquote  extension  and have to reside in the POW! program directory.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Tasten}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Keys}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 
\f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Keys;Editor}} Keys
\par \pard\plain \s25\sa72\tx1418 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Keys\tab and what they do
\par }\pard \s25\tx1418 {\lang2057 SHIFT+Ins\tab insert clipboard
\par CTRL+Ins\tab copy selected text into the clipboard
\par SHIFT+Del\tab cut selected text and copy into the clipboard
\par CTRL+Del\tab delete selected text
\par ALT+BkSp\tab undo last change
\par CTRL+Y\tab delete current line
\par SHIFT+F1\tab show help index
\par CTRL+F1\tab context sensitive help
\par F3\tab repeat search
\par SHIFT+F3\tab search for a string
\par ALT+F4\tab close Pow!
\par SHIFT+F4\tab cascade edit windows
\par SHIFT+F5\tab tile edit windows
\par F7\tab move cursor to last error position
\par F8\tab move cursor to next error position
\par F9\tab make project
\par CTRL+F9\tab run program
\par ALT+F9\tab compile current edit windows
\par F12\tab save contents of edit window under new name
\par SHIFT+F12\tab save file
\par CTRL+F12\tab open new
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Die_PowSupp_DLL}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} The PowSupp-DLL}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Compiler-Interface DLL's}} The PowSupp-DLL
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 To make the development of a Compiler-Interface-DLL's easier, POW! supplies the programmer with a set of functions in this DLL.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Konfigurieren_der_Oberflaeche}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Configuring the workbench}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Configuration; Configuring the workbench}} Configuring the Workbench
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 With the menu command }{\b\lang2057 Preferences}{\lang2057  POW! can be configured to your personal liking.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select }{\b\lang2057 Preferences}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Options}{\lang2057 .
\par 2.\tab Select the options you prefer and press }{\b\lang2057 Ok}{\lang2057 . The new settings are active immediately
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\sa120 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Save on exit:}{\lang2057 
\par Here you can define which options to save upon exiting POW!.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Project file:}{\lang2057  The last project that was worked with, including open edit windows and any RUN parameters.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Desktop:}{\lang2057  Position and size of the POW! window, definitions of the tools, and in case no project is active all open edit windows.
\par }\pard \s25 {\b\lang2057 Configuration:}{\lang2057  options selected in the }{\b\lang2057 preferences}{\lang2057 .
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Speedbar position:}{\lang2057  Depending on the selection the function bar will be located at the top or at the bottom of the window.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Editor:}{\lang2057  Select the editor you want to use. Default is "boosted32".
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Compiler: }{\lang2057 Here you have to select the compiler you want to use for your work. }{\b\lang2057 It is not possible to work before a compiler is selected.}{\lang2057 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Creating a setup file}{\v\lang2057 Erstellen_einer_Konfiguration}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Loading a setup file}{\v\lang2057 Laden_einer_Konfigurationsdatei}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Using third party tools}{\v\lang2057 Einbinden_von_Software_Tools}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Oeffnen_einer_Projektdefinition}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Opening a Project}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Projects;Opening a Project}} Opening a Project
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 All project files have the extension '.prj'.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select }{\b\lang2057 Open}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Project}{\lang2057 .
\par 2.\tab Now you see a dialog window. Select either the project you wish to open or enter a new project name if you wish to create a project..
\par 3.\tab Press }{\b\lang2057 Ok}{\lang2057 . If you entered a name of a project which does not exist yet, you will be asked if you wish to create this project.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Editing projects}{\v\lang2057 Editieren_der_Projektdefinition}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Using templates}{\v\lang2057 Arbeiten_mit_Templates}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Editieren_der_Projektdefinition}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Editing Projects}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Projects;Editing Projects}} Editing Projects
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 A project defines a list of files, a compiler/linker combination and information on where to put compiler results.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Assembling a project:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select }{\b\lang2057 Edit}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Project.}{\lang2057 
\par 2.\tab Now you see a dialog window. Here you can add files to the project by selecting them and pressing the }{\b\lang2057 Add }{\lang2057 button or by double-clicking on files.
\par 3\tab You can remove a file from the project by selecting it in the project list and pressing the }{\b\lang2057 Delete }{\lang2057 button.
\par 4\tab If necessary, change the compiler selection with the command }{\b\lang2057 Preferences }{\lang2057 in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Options}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Compiler-, Linker and Directory-Options:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 These options depend on the selected compiler/linker. They can be changed with the commands }{\b\lang2057 Compiler}{\lang2057 , }{\b\lang2057 Linker}{\lang2057  and }{\b\lang2057 Directories }{\lang2057 
in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Options}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Saving a project:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 The project is being saved automatically after pressing }{\b\lang2057 OK}{\lang2057  in one of the dialogs (Project)}{\b\lang2057 Edit}{\lang2057 , (Options)}{\b\lang2057 Compiler}{\lang2057 , (Options)}{
\b\lang2057 Linker}{\lang2057  and (Options)}{\b\lang2057 Directories.
\par 
\par Warning:}{\lang2057 
\par If you have a disk caching utility installed with the write behind option activated you may experience a sudden loss of your project after you crash your system with a buggy program.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\fi-360\li360 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Opening a project}{\v\lang2057 Oeffnen_einer_Projektdefinition}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Using templates}{\v\lang2057 Arbeiten_mit_Templates}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Oeffnen_von_Dateien}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Opening Files}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Opening Files}} Opening Files
\par \pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Open }{\lang2057 in the menu }{\b\lang2057 File}{\lang2057  or click in the open button in the }{\strike\lang2057 function bar}{\v\lang2057 
Die_Funktionsleiste}{\lang2057 .
\par 2.\tab Select the file you wish to open.
\par 3.\tab Press }{\b\lang2057 Ok}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\sa120 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Changing the directory:}{\lang2057  double-click on an element of the directory hierarchy in the }{\b\lang2057 Directory}{\lang2057 -area. The icons on the left side have the following meaning:
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 \{bmc drwop.bmp\} directory of path to current directory
\par \{bmc drwopgr.bmp\} current directory
\par }\pard \s25\sa120 {\lang2057 \{bmc drwcl.bmp\} subdirectory in current directory
\par }{\b\lang2057 File types:}{\lang2057  only files with the extension selected in the field }{\b\lang2057 List Files of Type}{\lang2057  are being displayed. The list of possible extensions depends on the current compiler.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Changing the drive:}{\lang2057  Select the drive you wish to work with in the }{\b\lang2057 Drives }{\lang2057 list. The icons located beside the drive names have the following meaning:
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 \{bmc drvdisk.bmp\} Floppy disk drive or other removable media
\par \{bmc drvhard.bmp\} Hard disk
\par \{bmc drvnet.bmp\} Network drive
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 The function bar}{\v\lang2057 Die_Funktionsleiste}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Datei_unter_anderem_Namen}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Saving files using a new name}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Saving files using a new name}} Saving files using a new Name
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 The file in the current edit window can be saved with the save command or with the save button in the }{\strike\lang2057 function bar.}{\v\lang2057 Die_Funktionsleiste
\par }{\lang2057 To save the file using a new name you have to do the following:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 
\par 1.\tab Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Save as}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 File.}{\lang2057 
\par 2.\tab Enter the new name in the now appearing dialog. Press }{\b\lang2057 OK}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 
\par The file is now on disk with a new name. If a file already existed with that name, you will be asked whether you wished to overwrite that file or not.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Drucker_einrichten}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Printer Configuration}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Printer Configuration}} Configuring the Printer
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 To select and configure a specific printer do the following:
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Printer setup}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 File}{\lang2057 .
\par 2.\tab Choose your printer in the list of installed printer drivers.
\par 3.\tab Click }{\b\lang2057 Ok.}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Set Up:}{\lang2057  Most of the printer drivers offer a dialog for a detailed configuration of the printer. Select }{\b\lang2057 Set-Up}{\lang2057  to get this dialog from your printer driver.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Suchen_von_Text}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Searching for Text}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Searching for Text}} Searching for a specific Text
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 You can search for a specific text in the contents of an edit window.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Find}{\lang2057  in the Menu }{\b\lang2057 Search}{\lang2057 .
\par 2.\tab Enter the text you wish to search for or select one from the list of texts previously searched for.
\par 3.\tab Select the options you wish (see below)
\par 4.\tab Press  }{\b\lang2057 Ok }{\lang2057 to start the search.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 When the search string is found the cursor is placed at that location in the edit window.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\sa120 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Case Sensitive:}{\lang2057  Upper and lowercase must match exactly.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Whole Word only:}{\lang2057  The search is only succesfull if the searched text is found as a separate word.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Direction Up:}{\lang2057  Searching is from current cursor position towards the start of the file.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Direction Down: }{\lang2057 Searching is from current cursor position towards the end of the file.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Replacing Text}{\v\lang2057 Ersetzen_von_Text}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Ersetzen_von_Text}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Replacing Text}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Replacing Text}} Replacing a specific Text
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 A specific text is to be replaced by another one.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Replace}{\lang2057  from the menu }{\b\lang2057 Search.}{\lang2057 
\par 2.\tab Enter the text to be searched for in the field }{\b\lang2057 Old }{\lang2057 and enter the text to place with in the field }{\b\lang2057 New}{\lang2057 .
\par 3.\tab Select the options you need (see below).
\par 4.\tab Press }{\b\lang2057 OK}{\lang2057 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 If the text to be searched for is found POW! replaces it by the text entered in the }{\b\lang2057 New}{\lang2057  field.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Options:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\sa120 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Case Sensitive:}{\lang2057  Upper and lowercase must match exactly.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Whole Word only:}{\lang2057  The search is only succesful if the searched text is found as a separate word.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Replace All:}{\lang2057  The search and replace process goes on automatically until no more instances of the search text can be found.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Direction Up:}{\lang2057  Searching is from current cursor position towards the start of the file.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Direction Down: }{\lang2057 Searching is from current cursor position towards the end of the file.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Searching for a specific Text}{\v\lang2057 Suchen_von_Text}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Zu_Zeilennummer_verzweigen}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Go to Line}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Go to Line}} Go to Line
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 It is possible to go directly to a particular line in an edit window.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s28\fi-284\li284\tx284 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 1.\tab Select the command  }{\b\lang2057 Goto line number}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Search.}{\lang2057 
\par 2.\tab Enter the desired line number.
\par 3.\tab Press  }{\b\lang2057 Ok}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Erzeugen_des_Projekts}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Creating a Program}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Projects;Make;Build;Creating a Program}} Creating a Program
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 In order to create an executeable program from your project all source modules first have to be compiled in the right order of dependency and then linked together.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 Select }{\b\lang2057 Make}{\lang2057  or }{\b\lang2057 Build }{\lang2057 in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Compile}{\lang2057 
. The difference between these two commands is only in the selection of the files to be compiled, the link process is the same.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Make}{\lang2057  compiles only those modules that have been changed since the last make or build plus the modules which depend on on the changed modules.
\par 
\par }{\b\lang2057 Build}{\lang2057  compiles all modules.
\par 
\par If you experience an "error in application program" or something similar right after starting your program, try to use }{\b\lang2057 Build }{\lang2057 once instead of }{\b\lang2057 Make}{\lang2057 .
\par An error right at the beginning of the exectution may have two typical causes:
\par 1) You made a severe mistake while programming, in this case }{\b\lang2057 Build}{\lang2057  won't help you.
\par 2) There is a problem with one of the module initializations. This happens if for some reason }{\b\lang2057 Make}{\lang2057  did not compile all modules really necessary (e.g. after replacing source files with files copied from a different machine). A }{
\b\lang2057 Build }{\lang2057 will instantly cure this problem.
\par If in doubt, use }{\b\lang2057 Build}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Programm_Parameter}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Program Parameters}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Program Parameters}} Program Parameters
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 This dialog appears after selecting the command }{\b\lang2057 Parameters }{\lang2057 in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Run}{\lang2057 . Here you can define command line parameters for your program.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 Enter the parameters you wish in the text field and press }{\b\lang2057 Ok}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Parameters for Tools}{\v\lang2057 Parameter_fuer_Werkzeuge}{\lang2057 )
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Laden_einer_Konfigurationsdatei}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Loading a Configuration}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Configuration;Loading a Configuration}} Loading a Configuration
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 A configuration contains the settings in the }{\b\lang2057 Preferences}{\lang2057  and the list and configuration of third party tools.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 How to do it:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Open }{\lang2057 from the menu }{\b\lang2057 Options}{\lang2057 , select the configuration file you wish to use and press }{\b\lang2057 Ok.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Saving your Configuration}{\v\lang2057 Erstellen_einer_Konfiguration}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Configuring the Workbench}{\v\lang2057 Konfigurieren_der_Oberflaeche}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Erstellen_einer_Konfiguration}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Saving the Configuration}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Configuration; Saving the Configuration}} Saving your Configuration
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 You can configure POW! to different needs and save each setting separately.
\par 
\par The settings saved are those from the }{\strike\lang2057 Preferences}{\v\lang2057 Konfigurieren_der_Oberflaeche}{\lang2057  together with }{\strike\lang2057 Software-Tools}{\v\lang2057 Einbinden_von_Software_Tools}{\lang2057 .
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Saving the current Configuration
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Save}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Options.}{\lang2057 
 The configuration will be saved in your currently active configuration file. If this is the default configuration file, you alter the default configuration after startup.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Creating a new Configuration file
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 Select the command }{\b\lang2057 Save as}{\lang2057  in the menu }{\b\lang2057 Options.}{\lang2057  Enter the filename for the new file in the appearing dialog. Following }{\b\lang2057 Save }{\lang2057 
commands will save to that file.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Related Topics:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike\lang2057 Loading a Configuration}{\v\lang2057 Laden_einer_Konfigurationsdatei}{\lang2057 
\par }{\strike\lang2057 Configuring the Workbench}{\v\lang2057 Konfigurieren_der_Oberflaeche}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Hilfe_aufrufen}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Using Help}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Help}} Using Help
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 You can obtain help via the menu }{\b\lang2057 Help}{\lang2057  or by pressing the right mouse button (if this is activated in the }{\b\lang2057 options}{\lang2057 ).
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Menu functions:
\par }\pard\plain \s25\fi-1134\li1134\sa120\tx1134 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 Index:}{\lang2057 \tab A survey of available topics will be displayed.
\par }{\b\lang2057 Topic:}{\lang2057 \tab Select a topic from the available help pages.}{\b\lang2057 
\par Compiler:}{\lang2057 \tab Show the index of help pages supported by the selected compiler.
\par }\pard \s25\fi-1134\li1134\tx1134 {\b\lang2057 Using help:}{\lang2057 \tab This help!}{\b\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Right mouse button:
\par }\pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 If the Option }{\b\lang2057 Topic Search}{\lang2057  is activated in the preferences, a click with the right mouse button within an edit window will ac
tivate the help from the current compiler. The word below the mouse pointer will be given to the compiler help as a search pattern.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Parameter_fuer_Werkzeuge}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $}
 Parameters for Tools}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Tools}} Parameters for Tools
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\lang2057 This dialog appears, if a tool from the menu }{\b\lang2057 Tool}{\lang2057  was started and has the flag }{\b\lang2057 Ask for Arguments}{\lang2057  set.
\par 
\par In this dialog you can enter the parameters that will be passed as command line parameters to the tool.
\par }{\b\lang2057 
\par }{\lang2057 The following special character sequences will be translated before being passed to the tool:
\par }{\b\lang2057 
\par }\pard \s25\fi-700\li700 {\b\lang2057 %a}{\lang2057 \tab the window handle of the current edit window (4 digits hex)
\par }{\b\lang2057 %c}{\lang2057 \tab the name of the command interpreter in the current operating system (\ldblquote cmd.exe\rdblquote  under NT and \ldblquote command.com\rdblquote  under Win95)
\par }{\b\lang2057 %d}{\lang2057 \tab the path of the POW! program directory
\par }{\b\lang2057 %f\tab }{\lang2057 the name of the file in the current edit window
\par }{\b\lang2057 %i}{\lang2057 \tab path of MS-Windows
\par }{\b\lang2057 %n}{\lang2057 \tab the name of the file in the current edit window without path or extension
\par }{\b\lang2057 %o}{\lang2057 \tab the path of the current project
\par }{\b\lang2057 %p\tab }{\lang2057 the name of the current project (without extension)
\par }{\b\lang2057 %r}{\lang2057 \tab the complete name of the current project
\par }{\b\lang2057 %w}{\lang2057 \tab the window handle of the main POW! window (4 digits hex)
\par }{\b\lang2057 %x}{\lang2057 \tab the name of the executable generated by the current project
\par }{\b\lang2057 %1}{\lang2057 \tab first command line parameter given when executing POW!
\par }{\b\lang2057 %2}{\lang2057 \tab second command line parameter given when executing POW!
\par %%\tab %
\par }\pard \s25 {\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sb72\sa120\sl288\slmult1\keepn \f5\fs28\lang2057 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super #} Standard_Projekt}${\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super $} Default Project}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s19 \f5\fs20\lang1031 {\cs16\super K} Default Project;Projects}} Default Project
\par \pard\plain \s25 \f5\fs18\lang1031 When no project file is active, Pow! automatically uses the default project. The default project is saved as \lquote pow.prj\rquote 
 in your Windows directory. It behaves like any other project with one important additional capability: the source in the acti
ve edit window is assumed to be the main module of the project and when make or build is selected, imported modules with the source in the same directory are automatically compiled and linked to the program.
\par 
\par Additional modules, libraries or resource files can be added to the default project in the edit project dialog. Extra care is needed, because this has a global effect.
\par 
\par The default setting of the default project after installation of Pow! contains the Opal-library only.
\par \pard\plain \s27\sb240\sa180 \b\f5\fs22\lang1031 Related Topics:
\par \pard\plain \s25\fi-360\li360 \f5\fs18\lang1031 {\strike Opening a project}{\v Oeffnen_einer_Projektdefinition}
\par {\strike Editing projects}{\v Editieren_der_Projektdefinition}
\par {\strike Working with projects}{\v Arbeiten_mit_Projekten}
\par \pard \s25\fi-357\li357 
\par }